README.md, before:

# Kylix CLI

[![CI](https://github.com/crane-valley/kylix-cli/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/crane-valley/kylix-cli/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/crane-valley/kylix-cli)](https://github.com/crane-valley/kylix-cli/releases/latest)
[![Website](https://img.shields.io/website?url=https%3A%2F%2Fkylix-pqc.dev%2F)](https://kylix-pqc.dev/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)

Command-line interface for post-quantum cryptography operations using the [Kylix](https://github.com/crane-valley/kylix) library.

## Installation

### Pre-built Binaries

**Linux/macOS:**

```sh
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -LsSf https://github.com/crane-valley/kylix-cli/releases/latest/download/kylix-cli-installer.sh | sh
```

**Windows (PowerShell):**

```powershell
powershell -ExecutionPolicy ByPass -c "irm https://github.com/crane-valley/kylix-cli/releases/latest/download/kylix-cli-installer.ps1 | iex"
```

### From Source

```sh
cargo install --git https://github.com/crane-valley/kylix-cli kylix-cli
```

With benchmark feature:

```sh
cargo install --git https://github.com/crane-valley/kylix-cli kylix-cli --features bench
```

## Usage

### Key Generation

```sh
# ML-KEM (Key Encapsulation)
kylix keygen -a ml-kem-768 -o mykey

# ML-DSA (Digital Signature)
kylix keygen -a ml-dsa-65 -o mykey

# SLH-DSA (Stateless Hash-Based Signature)
kylix keygen -a slh-dsa-shake-128f -o mykey
```

### Encapsulation/Decapsulation (ML-KEM)

```sh
# Encapsulate (creates shared secret and ciphertext)
kylix encaps --pub mykey.pub -o ciphertext.ct

# Decapsulate (recovers shared secret from ciphertext)
kylix decaps --key mykey.sec -i ciphertext.ct
```

### Sign/Verify (ML-DSA, SLH-DSA)

```sh
# Sign a file
kylix sign --key mykey.sec -i document.txt -o document.sig

# Verify a signature
kylix verify --pub mykey.pub -i document.txt -s document.sig
```

### Algorithm Information

```sh
kylix info
```

### Benchmarks (requires `bench` feature)

```sh
# Run benchmarks for all algorithms
kylix bench

# Benchmark specific algorithm
kylix bench -a ml-kem-768 -i 1000

# Compare with external tools (OpenSSL, liboqs)
kylix bench -a ml-kem-768 --compare
```

## Supported Algorithms

| Algorithm | Type | NIST Level | Standard |
|-----------|------|------------|----------|
| ML-KEM-512 | KEM | 1 | FIPS 203 |
| ML-KEM-768 | KEM | 3 | FIPS 203 |
| ML-KEM-1024 | KEM | 5 | FIPS 203 |
| ML-DSA-44 | Signature | 2 | FIPS 204 |
| ML-DSA-65 | Signature | 3 | FIPS 204 |
| ML-DSA-87 | Signature | 5 | FIPS 204 |
| SLH-DSA-SHAKE-128s/f | Signature | 1 | FIPS 205 |
| SLH-DSA-SHAKE-192s/f | Signature | 3 | FIPS 205 |
| SLH-DSA-SHAKE-256s/f | Signature | 5 | FIPS 205 |

## Output Formats

- `hex` - Hexadecimal encoding (default)
- `base64` - Base64 encoding
- `pem` - PEM format with headers

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

docs: add security warning to README (#16)
* docs: add security warning to README

Add a prominent warning that this CLI uses the experimental Kylix
library which has NOT been audited and is NOT intended for production
use. Link to the security policy in the main kylix repository.

* docs: move security warning to top of README

Move the Security section right after the intro paragraph so users
see the warning before proceeding with installation or usage.

README.md, after:

# Kylix CLI

[![CI](https://github.com/crane-valley/kylix-cli/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/crane-valley/kylix-cli/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/crane-valley/kylix-cli)](https://github.com/crane-valley/kylix-cli/releases/latest)
[![Website](https://img.shields.io/website?url=https%3A%2F%2Fkylix-pqc.dev%2F)](https://kylix-pqc.dev/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)

Command-line interface for post-quantum cryptography operations using the [Kylix](https://github.com/crane-valley/kylix) library.

## Security

> [!WARNING]
> This CLI uses the [Kylix](https://github.com/crane-valley/kylix) library, which is experimental and has **NOT been audited**. It is **NOT intended for production use**.

See [SECURITY.md](https://github.com/crane-valley/kylix/blob/main/SECURITY.md) for security policy and vulnerability reporting.

## Installation

### Pre-built Binaries

**Linux/macOS:**

```sh
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -LsSf https://github.com/crane-valley/kylix-cli/releases/latest/download/kylix-cli-installer.sh | sh
```

**Windows (PowerShell):**

```powershell
powershell -ExecutionPolicy ByPass -c "irm https://github.com/crane-valley/kylix-cli/releases/latest/download/kylix-cli-installer.ps1 | iex"
```

### From Source

```sh
cargo install --git https://github.com/crane-valley/kylix-cli kylix-cli
```

With benchmark feature:

```sh
cargo install --git https://github.com/crane-valley/kylix-cli kylix-cli --features bench
```

## Usage

### Key Generation

```sh
# ML-KEM (Key Encapsulation)
kylix keygen -a ml-kem-768 -o mykey

# ML-DSA (Digital Signature)
kylix keygen -a ml-dsa-65 -o mykey

# SLH-DSA (Stateless Hash-Based Signature)
kylix keygen -a slh-dsa-shake-128f -o mykey
```

### Encapsulation/Decapsulation (ML-KEM)

```sh
# Encapsulate (creates shared secret and ciphertext)
kylix encaps --pub mykey.pub -o ciphertext.ct

# Decapsulate (recovers shared secret from ciphertext)
kylix decaps --key mykey.sec -i ciphertext.ct
```

### Sign/Verify (ML-DSA, SLH-DSA)

```sh
# Sign a file
kylix sign --key mykey.sec -i document.txt -o document.sig

# Verify a signature
kylix verify --pub mykey.pub -i document.txt -s document.sig
```

### Algorithm Information

```sh
kylix info
```

### Benchmarks (requires `bench` feature)

```sh
# Run benchmarks for all algorithms
kylix bench

# Benchmark specific algorithm
kylix bench -a ml-kem-768 -i 1000

# Compare with external tools (OpenSSL, liboqs)
kylix bench -a ml-kem-768 --compare
```

## Supported Algorithms

| Algorithm | Type | NIST Level | Standard |
|-----------|------|------------|----------|
| ML-KEM-512 | KEM | 1 | FIPS 203 |
| ML-KEM-768 | KEM | 3 | FIPS 203 |
| ML-KEM-1024 | KEM | 5 | FIPS 203 |
| ML-DSA-44 | Signature | 2 | FIPS 204 |
| ML-DSA-65 | Signature | 3 | FIPS 204 |
| ML-DSA-87 | Signature | 5 | FIPS 204 |
| SLH-DSA-SHAKE-128s/f | Signature | 1 | FIPS 205 |
| SLH-DSA-SHAKE-192s/f | Signature | 3 | FIPS 205 |
| SLH-DSA-SHAKE-256s/f | Signature | 5 | FIPS 205 |

## Output Formats

- `hex` - Hexadecimal encoding (default)
- `base64` - Base64 encoding
- `pem` - PEM format with headers

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.
